hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here with
another China history podcast our one
hundred and twenty-fifth this time today
by popular demand don't tell me I never
served the people we're going to take a
look at another eminent and
distinguished person from Chinese
history many of you especially anyone
who has read Romance of the Three
Kingdoms know of jukka Liang I'm sure
he's on the list of the all-time top 20
best-known Chinese people from history
but not everyone knows who he is and why
he's so renowned so in today's episode
we'll sort out the life and times of a
man whose name has become synonymous
with strategy cleverness the period
we're looking at this time is the end of
the Han Dynasty in the Three Kingdoms
period that followed some of this will
be rehash from chb past episodes 20 and
22 that covered the eastern Han part
three and the Three Kingdoms
that really was a fabled time in Chinese
history the Three Kingdoms period has
been romanticized and fictionalized to
an extent by lawan jones 14th century
novel as usual all we have for source
material is often at best a bola Shi fun
or thin gruel with the exception of
archaeological evidence uncovered from
time to time the lion's share of the
history of this period comes down to us
from four of the so-called 24 histories
the are sure these are the official
chronicles that covered everything from
the Han to the Ming now just because
they were the official versions of what
happened doesn't necessarily mean the
contents were totally true the four
books in particular that reveal the
history of jukka Liang's time are the
San Quarter written by Cheung Chau and
of course the sure G from somach in the
records of the grand historian besides
these two big ones there are the
of hon and later hunt so a total of four
and the sank watcher the records of the
three kingdoms that book was broken down
into three books one for each kingdom
the book of way the book of Shu and of
so many names from this era but all of
them are important is I always do any of
the Chinese names and places mentioned
in this and almost all episodes will be
noted on my website so if you get blown
away by all the names in this or or any
episode go to my website and I tried to
sort everything out for you the Three
Kingdoms period is a sixty year period
from 220 to 280 that acted as a buffer
in between the fall of the Han Dynasty
and the establishment of the Jin dynasty
its impact on Chinese culture was a lot
longer lasting than the brief six
decades of the Sun Koecher died the
Three Kingdoms period but let's step
back a bit and look at what else was
happening in the world when Jukka liang
was serving as Prime Minister of the Shu
state advising his King on the best
strategy to unite China under his rule
this was the first three decades of the
third century AD the 200s Christianity
of course was just beginning to get some
traction Matthew Mark Luke and John had
already come and gone
just over a century where this new
religion was going it was hard to say at
that time it would make his way to China
in about 13th centuries Nicaea was still
a century away this was the time of
septimius Severus and Caracalla in
ancient Rome so Commodus had had just
happened in Rome sort of turned a corner
at that point not for the better
this is when Parthia fell and the Sesana
Empire rose this was three and a half
centuries before the time of the Prophet
Muhammad so the early third century
Sesana doer mostly Zoroastrians
the Silk Road was flourishing having
been in existence already for over three
centuries the Han Dynasty lasted a long
time and a lot of the political and
governmental foundations built during
the preceding Ching dynasty were
enhanced and improved during the Han the
Han Dynasty rulers all surnamed Leo who
followed the founder Leo bong truly had
a nice long run pretty much almost up to
the Yellow Turban rebellion that began
in 184 AD the Leo family of the han
dynasty reigned during a very productive
and rich period in Chinese history once
the yellow turbans rose up the word on
the street was that the imperial mandate
enjoyed by the Leo family was not so
certain these military men loyal to the
Han Emperor were called in and were
tasked to deal with this yellow turban
menace and as they almost always did
these military strongmen once the
mission was accomplished would get a
little with a power and there were
always at least a few who felt they
could knock the Emperor off and take
over the throne themselves and these
were the times that Jukka Liang was born
into this is what the end of the Han or
the eastern Han was all about the yellow
turbans rose up in 184 thanks to floods
famine oppressive taxes and a weak
Emperor all it took was for a
charismatic leader such as Jung ji Oh to
come along with some far-out Taoist
teaching to stir up the that you know
what
so the Yellow Turban rebellion is
history records that pretty much did it
for the eastern or later Han Dynasty
rebellion was later put down in 205 but
the days of battle and contention did
not end from the end of the Yellow
Turban rebellion and 205 all the way up
to about the 6th century China had a
hard way to go although there will be a
brief respite when China is unified
50 years under the Jin dynasty once the
eastern or later Jin begins in 317 there
follows a couple rough-and-tumble
centuries before the sway dynasty
heralds the dawn of a new age in China
so it's out of this Yellow Turban
rebellion that this whole thing begins
that was the historical event that
spawned this tale our hero juga liang
was born in 180 180 my new zealand
listeners will of course remember that
year is the time when the volcano that
formed lake taupo last blue he came from
Shandong province born in present-day yi
nan county for which Lin Yi is the
county seat this is the southern part of
Shandong not too far from the border
with northernmost Jiangsu cuca Liang
came from a long line of scholar
officials but was by no means an
aristocrat himself young Chui Kalyan was
orphaned at an early age and fell into
the care of his uncle chuka Shen who
worked for one of the several warlords
contending for supremacy during the last
decades of the Eastern High ladies and
gentlemen the word complicated simply
does not describe this period in Chinese
history enough it is a major endeavor to
sort out the dozens and dozens of names
who were all fighting against each other
during the period when cuca Leon was
growing up the Han Emperor Ling in his
court entirely dominated by eunuchs by
the way had to call in a lot of these
local warlords to deal with the Yellow
Turban problem some of these military
men didn't amount to too much but some
did
Jukka Liang's first 20 years are flooded
with the names of these generals and
warlords and the big names of course
don't all new Bulli are you and Xiao
Chuang too soon gen Tong Isom ah soon
sir Joe Lee Kuan Yew who we featured in
CHP episode 81 Zhang Fei and of course
salt only obey
all these men were around when jukkalan
was growing up sunshine however he was
born a year after Zhu Kalyan but those
are some of the more important names as
the eastern Han began to wind down and
breathe its last and with those names
I'm only I'm only just getting started
trust me when I say the list goes on
there was this three decade period that
basically ran the entirety of the Shen
Emperor's reign he was a good example of
a of an emperor who who reigned but
never ruled I was questioning about how
much detail to get into about those
years from 190 to 230 it's almost a
bottomless pit of names battles and
outcomes involving names of provinces
that don't exist anymore and so many
characters change sides
I was thinking most you probably don't
have the stomach for that I'm not
kidding even if you're fluent in Chinese
this is a lot of names to keep track of
thanks to his uncle
chuka Chien Jugal young in 197 ended up
having the good fortune to end up in the
city of nan yang in Hana
it was known then as Wan Chung this
today medium-sized city of over ten
million inhabitants has a long and rich
history that I won't get into right now
for the purposes of today's episode
during the eastern Han there was this
relative of the Emperor in-law young and
his relative was based in Nanyang and he
was able to use his relationship with
the Emperor to really spiff up the place
and make it the second best place to be
in China short of actually living in the
capital law Yong if you couldn't live in
law young nan yang was the place this is
late second century China nan young and
it's by River and beautiful landscape
was a rather cultured place to live and
it attracted the attention of many
artists and literati of the day this is
where jukka Liang grew up and he never
lacked for teachers or role models his
main teacher was Samak way akh
Jing a man known not to suffer fools and
whose word could be trusted somehow Wei
Soong is going to be the one who
recommends to Lee obey that he seek out
Dougal young and he acts as the famous
go-between Chinese speakers might be
interested to know it's from supposedly
it's from Simha way that we get the the
Chung you a house in Shang as the story
goes Simha way you know always replied
no matter what you said he'd always go
ha ha ha ha ha ha you know whatever you
told him so he became known as a ha ha
Chien Xiang which is someone who always
says yeah yeah yeah good ok ok
someone who agrees with whatever you say
anyways word on the street is that came
from Samaha way probably from his wife
after his uncle passed away when he was
17 chuka Liang lived in relative
seclusion on his farm in Long John and
Nanyang because of his wisdom cleverness
and the way he hid all his talents where
no one could find him living in a hut
like a simple farmer he acquired the
nickname war long or crouching dragon it
was his choice to live this quiet and
secluded life rather than allow himself
to be controlled by any of these
contending warlords he had famously
married the daughter of one of the local
scholars of nan yang named Wong Chun yen
wons daughter who we know as lady Huang
but whose name might have been Quan Yin
history records that lady Huang was
notoriously not good-looking but
fortunately for both of them kuqali on
was attracted to brains rather than
looks she was supposedly his equal in
almost all things related to brain power
and they were very devoted to each other
it said she was the brains behind a few
of the achievements he's remembered for
by the 190s salt ah was pretty much the
largest power center in China his
victories over the yellow turbans had
made him and he also had control of the
Han Emperor shin and sort of had this
hapless royal under his care
nudge nudge since the Yellow Turban
rebellion Leo Bey had served under salts
hell but $1.99 yo pay and salchow
irrevocably parted ways me obey didn't
fare well lined up against hotel
he was often defeated and those years
from 200 onward hauled sows steadily
built up his power but you know always
behind the facade of the Han Dynasty
so from ages 17 to 27 chuckle young
lived this reclusive life in nan yang
while all around him all these warlords
and their minions were waging battle all
over northern and eastern China then one
day the fateful moment came and Leo Bey
calls on Jukka leo remember Samaha way
had recommended that he go meet this guy
this is in the year 207 by now Tata was
ruling with an iron fist and controlled
all of North China again it was juga
Liang's teacher Samak way
aka Shui Jing who brags to Leo Bey about
how great Djuka liang is and Leo pays
two closest comrades
you know accompanied him to nan yang to
seek out this this Jew Kolya these were
of course Zhang Fei and guan yu now
these two along with their leader Leo
Bey had long before there had already
taken that oath to become sworn brothers
at that peach garden actually that
probably never took place but that's
what it says in the romance of the three
kingdoms so they were very close by the
way I was listening to that old Three
Kingdoms episode and I realized I was
pronouncing vole Quan shown as Leo Guan
Zhong and after all this time no one
sent me any hate mail I'll fix that one
of these days so anyway these two eight
two camps of the obey were naturally
quite skeptical about everything they
were hearing about Google Yong
yeah right how can this guy be as great
as Samak Wei said he was you know it
bothered them that their boss yo Bey was
so keen on meeting to Kalyan
both chunghae and guan yu had been
thinking yeah after all this time what
were they chopped liver not only some
hey but others he had trusted said to
Lee obey that he must meet this
so-called war long also known by his
courtesy name of ko Ming so now you've
heard three names his personal name was
Joo Kalyan
chuga was a surname to one of those
compound Chinese surnames like Oh yang
su kusuma Shangguan etc his courtesy
name was combing this was also called a
style name I think I may have introduced
this before in a previous podcast when
men turned 20 years old they took on
what's known as a zoo or courtesy name
the reason for this was that according
to the book of rites the lychee it
wasn't considered courteous for a man to
refer to someone of his generation by
the personal name therefore when a guy
turned 20 he had what was known as a
camping ceremony and was either given or
selected for himself a style or courtesy
name that you know may be reflected some
of his traits or traits that he imagined
he had your personal name was strictly
reserved for use by your family you know
are those who were senior to you so -
Kalyan has known as war long and also ko
Ming when Leo Baeck called on him he had
to call on him three times because Zhu
Kalyan himself was testing Leo Bey
denying him an audience two times before
he finally agrees to see him on the
third visit and you could imagine what
chunghae and guan yu was saying who is
this guy not given face to to their lord
he'll BAE who was this there's nobody
coming dissing Han royalty like Leo Bay
making him come three times before he
agrees to see him you see
Leo Bay he was surnamed yo and he was
related to the Leo family who had ruled
China's Han Emperor's since Leo bond
found at the dynasty in 202 BC he was
squarely lined up against Hall tau who
you know now prime minister of Han you
hit a hammerlock on the north of China
and had his sights on Jingzhou Leo Bey
was
to put his dream team together and that
was why he was so intent on meeting Chu
Kalia as the story goes
Leo Bey had to tell qui you and Jang
Veda knock it off with their negative
comments about you Kalyan
so they had their meeting and at this
fateful encounter chuckling unveiled his
long Chung plan the long John play this
my friends was the whole playbook to
establish the state of shoe in the West
mainly were Sichuan lies drew Kalyan
presented his strategy to Leo Bey in
which he called for a base to be set up
that could rival salt saw in the north
and that of sunshine in the East the
long-john plan of jukka Leung called for
a rival third state to be established in
the west from which Leo Bey would in
time use as his base from which to
restore the Han rulers to power juga
Liang's strategy first called for an
alliance with Sun trans Kingdom in the
east and the two allies would join
together to defeat the much stronger
salchow in the north then after this was
accomplished and of course soon Tran
wasn't told this part of the plan once
there were only two kings left standing
the obeyence one trend the Coupe de
Grasse would be an attack by Leo Bay on
Swinton and then once this was completed
successfully China would be unified
again under the legitimate Han rulers of
which the Obey considered himself one so
after two kalyan gives him all the
details about how to carry this out Leo
Bey makes him his advisor and it's the
beginning of a beautiful friendship the
next year and 208 after suffering a
massive loss to tal tau at chungbang
west of Wuhan Leo Bay sends Jukka Leung
as his emissary to the wolf stay to make
a deal with son Chen these two guys
chuckle yang and Sun Tran near about the
same age
Jukka Liang's brother by the way worked
for soon chance that's a whole nother
sidebar to this meeting between chuka
Liang and swin Tran and 208 you know the
story
Deucalion meets with
great Sun Tran and convinces the warlord
of China's rich and lush young man
region that he should ally with Leo Bay
two stops hotel in his tracks combined
they total about 50,000 soldiers versus
solid sales army of over two hundred and
forty thousand which salts how boasted
was in excess of 800,000 the climax of
course is the Battle of Red Cliff from
the cold of winter 208 209 AD a huge
defeat for its hotel but by no means a
knockout punch in the aftermath of the
Battle of Red Cliffs Leo Bey firmly
established himself in the West but from
209 onwards pretty much for the
remainder of jukka Liang's life it was
one battle after another with these
three kingdoms brawling with each other
chuga Leone served lioba's Shu state
loyally all the way up to the end
his first major appointment came when
Leo Bey put Jukka Liang in control of a
few commanderies or June as they were
called sort of like a prefect all the
action up till now for Jukka Liang was
happening in the ancient province of
Jing or Ching Joe back in the day Jing
Joe would have made up the areas where
roughly today who Bay and Hunan
provinces are located after that he was
made a governor of another ancient
province yi that doesn't exist anymore
but that's the area where suit Ron is
today essentially Leo Bey sent him from
post to post and wherever he went
Jukka yang governed wisely and
effectively in 217 yo Bey had entrusted
Jukka Liang with defending Chengdu the
city that would one day be the capital
of the Shu Han Kingdom Jukka Liang
became sort of a d'Artagnan to the three
musketeers of Leo Bey John Fay and Guan
Yu these four made up the core of Leo
Bay's innermost circle all the while as
they were carving out their Kingdom
to the West their armies would have
battle after battle with the forces led
by its hotel at the end of 219 Kuan Yew
would meet his bloody end in my Cheung
in Hebei by now the Obey had declared
himself king of Shu Han his alliance
with Sun Chen was severed soon Tran will
then seize Jing province back under his
control adding it to his Stern Kingdom
the next year it's Hal tau will die of
natural causes and his son tal P will
take over the first things how P did
when all formalities were over was to
force the Shen Emperor to abdicate this
is an 228 D and that my good-looking
listeners is the date that the history
books call the official end of the Han
Dynasty the last decades of the Eastern
Han were a far cry from the good old
days under Han woo D so in 220 ad the
Three Kingdoms period begins and just as
this period name suggests you have three
kingdoms
it's highway to the north swim move to
the east and yo pays Xu Han to the west
they all try to knock each other off and
all three go to all kinds of heroic and
outrageous lengths to outmaneuver each
other and in doing so ultimately
unifying China under their rule li obey
made you Kali on his prime minister her
Chancellor as soon as he declared
himself Shu Huns Joliette in 221 soon
after this happened Zhang Fei was then
killed in April of 223 li obey up and
died his son Knowshon becomes the new
king and Jukka Liang loyally served him
as he did for Li obey he served the new
king in the capital managing the affairs
of states for the Shu Han Kingdom
history records he was a brilliant Prime
Minister in the country was well managed
yo Sean treated chuckling like a
respected elder he made to kill yang D
Wu Shan ho the Marquess of Wu another
name to add to true Kalyani's collection
in addition to Leo BAE's death in 223 a
number of his best generals also
perished in that year this punched a big
hole in the top leadership of the shoe
military machine by 224 225 Swinton was
trying to patch things up with Joe Kelly
on Hoppy's forces were really putting
some major heat on the kingdom of wool
although they hadn't been successful in
defeating the swing wool they kept
coming at them and no deal would be
struck until Jukka Liang sent an
emissary to speak with Swinton but then
suddenly in 226 saw he died and with the
death of that ruler Jukka Liang believed
this would create a weakness up in
hallway so he began planning for the
military campaigns that he would lead
personally and which would be among his
signature achievements these were the
five northern campaigns when the first
one commenced in 227 they were meant to
do two tall way what Jon kai-shek did
with the northern warlords 1,700 years
later in 225 he had just begun his
southern campaign to quell disturbances
down near you not he personally led the
expeditions to successfully pacify the
South once Leo Bey died you know the
powers down near present-day Yunnan
figured the time was right to rebel and
break away however they got a little too
big for their britches and chuka Leon
went down there and put down the revolt
he's gonna find out the armies of its
hallway were a whole other kettle of
fish and that's so easy to defeat in the
winter of 228 there followed the second
northern expedition and the third in the
following year in 229 Swinton declared
himself emperor of Wu so now it was Sol
ray on the throne in way in the north
Leo Shawn reigned in Shu Han and son
Chen the only one left of the original
three now declared himself emperor of
his Wu state juco Liang's fourth
northern campaign and 231 is
particularly noteworthy as it's recorded
that the so called wooden
oxen invention associated with Dougal
yang was used for the first time this
contraption had been likened to a kind
of wheelbarrow that was used to
transport supplies this was second in
third century AD the world moves slow
the wujing tong yah was still more than
half a millennium away gunpowder was way
off in the distance still these were
times of hand-to-hand combat swords
arrows spares and fire the weapon of
mass destruction of its day may have
been the repeating crossbow we'll get to
that a moment in 234 during chuka
Liang's fifth and final northern
offensive the great strategist died at
hua Chong urine facing off against a
formidable nemesis named Somali of his
five offenses launched from Jing and I
provinces the heart of Shu Han between
228 and 234 only one succeeded that's
how a general Somali was credited mostly
with fending off these offences
personally led by chuckle yeah and it's
the prestige he gained for his family
that later led to summarize grandson
somaye yen going on to unite China not
under tawa but founding his own dynasty
instead the gene that's fourth town gene
upon his death the son of the obey Leo
Sean gave to Kelly on another title and
a name by which he was also known Jang
woo ho or loyal and warlike Marquess
Joan means loyal and wool means martial
ism Hangul D the tongue poet doufu wrote
of Zhu Kalia juegos great name hangs
over the whole world the revered
statements portrait AHS with its
sublimity the Empire carved into thirds
hindered his designs yet he soars
through the ages a lone feather in the
sky he is brother to such greats as yin
and
lucien if he had established control sha
and Tao would be forgotten but the cycle
had passed Han fortunes could not be
restored his military strategy of
failure his hopes dashed his body
perished the Shu state would eventually
fall in 263 29 years after Chuck
Williams death so historically this is
what we remember Jukka Lian for he was
the brains behind the formation of the
kingdom of Shu Han his administrative
military and diplomacy skills made Leo
Bay a major contender and made his shoe
kingdom a formidable foe juga Liang
continued to build up the Shu Han state
and even after the death of his kingly
obey he continued to serve the Sun yo
shun and led troops into battle clinging
to the hope that he might one day
rightfully restore the Han Dynasty to
power but a juco Liang is rather
complicated character you see in the
fictionalized account of this period
told in law Qin Jones book Romance of
the Three Kingdoms
Jukka yang is really praised put on a
pedestal and immortalized so the
historic truth about who he was and what
he did and the legends mostly created by
law qin qiong have sort of been mashed
together a lot of stuff is credited to
chuckle yang and it's anyone's guess
whether any of it or none of it is
historic fact but juga liang the legend
his whole persona all the things that
were attributed to him that's why his
star still burns brighter than thousands
of other bright objects from Chinese
history I didn't mention this yet but he
had this look about him he attired and
accessorized himself in a certain kind
of way he always dressed in the robes of
a Taoist priest and he could always be
seen carrying a fan made from either the
feathers of a crane or of a goose rat
two versions he was always shown in
paintings wearing this particular
dress I'm not sure what it was I think
it was what's called a Jukka gin and and
the fan it was a fan of feathers
attached to a stick that he you know
often used like a laser pointer you know
kind of an instrument what was jiggly
unknown for how do Chinese scholars and
common folk look at him what is his name
associated with well most of all his
name was associated with strategy in war
and politics just as with the wisdom
contained in the more famous art of war
by Sun Tzu the strategies introduced by
- Kalyan could be applied to
non-military situations as well
particularly to politics in the
corporate world one of jukka Liang's
most famous writings that survived to
this day is the thirty-six stratagems
the sanction EOG stratagems are more
about deception and trickery and a
stratagem isn't the same as strategy but
more than a strategist who left behind
an admirable track record and plenty of
writings because of his service to the
obey in building the kingdom of Shu Han
he was also known as a great politician
and statesman as well in addition to
that Jukka liang is also remembered for
his skills as a diplomat astrologist
astronomer calligrapher painter musician
and is a great innovator and inventor I
already mentioned that he's credited
with inventing this particular kind of
transport vehicle called the wooden ox
or moon yo this was only one of the many
things that are said to have originated
with juco liang or with his amazingly
clever wife it's said she came up with a
few of these ideas and contraptions what
else did he invent he invented kites
land mines he also invented this
contraption called the floating horse
that was some kind of grain transport
vehicle he designed all kinds of
infantry military formations that were
used for a long time in the ancient
world the coaming lantern was named
after him this was a paper lantern that
utilized the same principles as hot-air
balloons a small flame at the base of an
enclosed paper lantern would heat the
air in
side the lantern and the paper would
float up into the sky this was used as a
kind of signalling device for the
military that would allow troops that
were spread out over a great distance to
all move in concert when they saw the
signal his two signature inventions
though were what he's most remembered by
the first was one of the WMDs of its day
this was known as the juga crossbow a
repeating crossbow just as the name
suggests it was like the automatic
machine gun of its day it could shoot
like two or three arrows at a time then
there's one more thing that Jukka leon
gets credit for he supposedly invented
Monto monteux's kind of steamed wheat
bread sort of like a bun you can get it
all over China but it's mostly a
northern Chinese thing Monto and Allsop
are sometimes used interchangeably but
my understanding is that it bounces just
some Monto with a meat or vegetable
filling as the story goes when chu
Kalyan was leading his Shu Han troops
during the southern campaign that sought
to subdue the breakaway lands around
your nine and 225 the one facing off
against jukkalan down there was Hmong
after that whole campaign was
successfully finished when the army was
marching back up north to the lands of
Shu they came to a river that because of
the strong current couldn't be crossed
without soldiers and horses being swept
away
but alas one of the captured barbarians
from these lands near the Yunnan Burma
border revealed to Jukka Liang that his
people had come up with their way to
cross this river
he explained their way was simply to
offer up a sacrifice to the gods and the
river currents would slow to the you
know extent that they could get to the
other side and keep making their way
back to Shu the only thing was that the
sacrifice involved chopping off the
heads of 50 barbarians and tossing all
50 barbarian heads into the river and
this would appease the gods and you know
problem solved
so juga Liang took the
Sall in and said you know he had enough
killing after the southern campaign and
wasn't gonna kill another 50 men no
matter conquered southern barbarians or
shoo hot so he called for some horses or
cows or whatever was available to be
butchered and then the meat from the
animals was to be placed inside of a
rounded wheat bun that after it was
steamed would resemble you know a human
head close enough to the you know to
trick the gods into believing that these
were in fact 50 heads of barbarians
now there's something going on here that
unless you speak Chinese you're not
gonna get it the word back then that was
used for barbarian was mon second tone
and toe second tone means head so Monto
in Chinese sounds like barbarian head
but the sound form on second tone had
many other meanings as well one of the
other Chinese characters pronounced
second tone Mon is the character for a
steamed bun and the second character
told well yes still means head so if you
change out the two characters form on
the word would translate to either
barbarian head or steamed bun head but
they sounded exactly the same so chuckle
Yong had fifty Monto or faux barbarian
heads thrown into the river and as the
story goes that basically did the trick
and after they successfully crossed the
river from that point on these mando
became an integral part of the northern
Chinese diet and somewhere along the way
the Chinese character was changed from
barbarian Mon to steamed bun Mon Monto
today usually is just steamed bread
nothing else if a montero has something
in it you know then as I said it's
technically a ball that's on a simple
level of course my apologies if I
angered a few hundred million people
with that oversimplification so that my
friends is the general overview of one
of the true luminaries from Chinese
history he goes by many names
Jukka yang akan Ming wore long whooshing
ho Jang woo ho
maybe some more those are the ones I
came across anyone in modern times who
exhibits amazing powers of organization
and strategy in the Chinese world might
be compared to jokah Liang he was
synonymous with clever strategy and
outsmarting your opponent his role in
supporting Leo Bey and his impact on the
times also allowed Jukka Liang to be
remembered as a statesman as well the
legend of jukka Liang grew mostly out of
the fourteenth century novel Romance of
the Three Kingdoms this work attributed
all kinds of amazing feats and events to
Jukka Liang that you know like most
anything else from those olden days is
anyone's guess as far as how authentic
they are I hope no in minds that I left
out the main meat of the story that is
all the dozens and dozens of battles
that took place between the generals of
all the three kingdoms if I mention one
that I'd have to mention them all and I
would have flooded you with names of
people and places that would have your
head spinning true Kalyan was the one
considered responsible for raising up
the Obey and creating the third kingdom
of Shu Han he served this kingdom
loyally till the end of his life and
died in the service of the state but in
the end it was a general from Hollway
somalian that finished off not only
Sunwoo in the East but Shu Han as well
then when those two competing kingdoms
were done in he cannibalized his own
Holloway Kingdom and founded the Jin
dynasty instead and with the founding of
the Jin China was unified albeit for
only 50 years and so will put a lid on
it and I'm going to bid you a fond
farewell until next time I'm gonna be in
Hong Kong December 13th to the 22nd
looking forward to that and I'm gonna be
back in China probably right after the
Spring Festival sometime in mid-february
or there abouts not sure where I will
visit this time but I'll let you know if
I'm
coming to a town near you I might be in
London end of January still planning
I'll let you know on that that's all I
have for you this is Laszlo Montgomery
bidding you the fondest of farewells I'm
signing off from Clermont once again 88
degrees right now and Asia blue skies la
pollution and all still kicking back and
enjoying the last vestiges of sunny warm
SoCal weather we're turning back the
clocks in a couple of weeks and that to
me usually signals the end of the good
weather not a fan of the cold you know
having grown up in Chicago and all
please my Scandinavian listeners don't
take offense take care everyone and may
it be our mutual fate that we join
together again next time for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast